---
title: "Demo"
draft: false
weight: 10
---

## Overview

The demo environment can be run in two different modes:

1. In standalone mode using docker
2. In development mode running locally

Both environments will handle the setup of a root CA, two subordinate issuing CA's and
3 different VASP configuration. The first two VASP certificates are issues by the first
subordinate CA, the third one by the second subordinate CA.

## Standalone Mode

This is the easiest way to get a demo environment up-and-running as the only requirement
is having `docker` and `docker-compose` installed on your system. No additional build tools
are necessary.

Note that the standalone mode does not have the ability to make local code changes and test
drive them locally. To accomplish that, refer to Development Mode below.

### Starting the demo

1. Refer to the [Setup your git directory](/contributing/documentation/) section to checkout the
code repository.
2. Make sure you have `docker` and `docker-compose` installed on your system.
3. Execute `make demo-docker` to spool up the VASP servers

Be patient as your system will download some docker images to setup the PKI environment and
prepare the VASP configurations. Wait until the VASP servers are reporting they are running.

Example output:

```
Creating trisa_vasp1_1 ... done
Creating trisa_vasp2_1 ... done
Creating trisa_vasp3_1 ... done
Attaching to trisa_vasp2_1, trisa_vasp1_1, trisa_vasp3_1
vasp2_1  | time="2019-11-06T17:02:45Z" level=info msg="starting TRISA admin server" component=admin port=":8592" tls=listening
vasp2_1  | time="2019-11-06T17:02:45Z" level=info msg="starting TRISA server" component=grpc port=":8092" tls=listening
vasp1_1  | time="2019-11-06T17:02:45Z" level=info msg="starting TRISA admin server" component=admin port=":8591" tls=listening
vasp1_1  | time="2019-11-06T17:02:45Z" level=info msg="starting TRISA server" component=grpc port=":8091" tls=listening
vasp3_1  | time="2019-11-06T17:02:45Z" level=info msg="starting TRISA admin server" component=admin port=":8593" tls=listening
vasp3_1  | time="2019-11-06T17:02:45Z" level=info msg="starting TRISA server" component=grpc port=":8093" tls=listening
```

Leave this terminal running. Any output generated by the VASP containers will be printed on your screen (see next paragraph).

### Triggering transaction exchanges


### Cleanup

You can terminate the containers by using `CTRL+C`. When you are done test driving the demo environment you can clean
everything up by simply running `make demo-docker-cleanup`.


## Development Mode

The development mode is very similar to the Standalone Mode described above, with the only difference that the code on your
local machine will be used. To be able to run this mode, you will need to have your development environment setup properly first.
Refer to the [Development section](/getting_started/dev/) for more details.

